hello today for this first video we're
gonna look at the modes and I try to
answer one of the questions that I get
asked all the time which is what did the
mode sound like most people can and will
learn the scales of the most so
basically just the note sequence without
you know major problems
the thing is when they start to try to
use it then they realize it they don't
really know what kind of color each mode
has and I think the reason for that is
that we always practice the scales in a
vacuum so basically what we do is just
play like this from a play C major and
we learned that in all over the
fretboard and then we might want to
study C minor and and we just keep going
like that and the problem is most of
these modes are really close to each
other so for example take the Ionian
mode which is the major scale and the
Lydian mode there's only one note
difference so if you just play like this
it's not that big of a difference
because you have nothing to compare it
to I mean this mode it's also major
scale of G so we're never going to that
today but the problem with this is that
you always listen to the modes in a
vacuum and so that makes it very
difficult to play and to use them in a
musical manner and the other thing we
always do is play on top of chord
progressions so the idea is that you
know if we have a chord then we'll know
what the mode sounds like well you will
but as soon as the chord changes the
relationship between the scale you're
using and the chord switches you know
changes everything over so maybe the
mode you're using now over C is not
going to be that mode over F or G or a
minor or whatever okay so what we're
gonna try to do today is well first of
all let me give you the one octave for
each mode alright so we have a union or
major
Dorian
friggin
Lillian
mixolydian
iliyan or minor
and Locrian
okay so here's what I wanted to do now
let's take one out of only of the C
major scale alright and we're playing
the top of our drone a drone is I know
that it's helped throughout and you can
have a friend over with a synthesizer or
you can actually record it yourself in
you know Pro Tools or whatever program
you're using I have a friend over with a
historic guitar you know hold the nose
like that for a long time the idea is
you only get one note even get the whole
chord and even change chords so you just
keep this one note I know you have this
little machine here this is a tempura in
a product offer this is I bought this on
my last trip to India and in the music
if you want to check it out it's all
based on Browns so they will have this
note and then on top of that that will
just play all these scales and rocks
that's what they call this anyway check
it out so I'm gonna play the C alright
and now you'll hear how apparent the
modes become so this is major scale or a
union
and and this is the leading sphere only
one note difference
so it's much easier to hear the
difference now because we're comparing
it to the root so C is always the root
and we don't fall in the trap of just
playing different major scales right so
what I want to do is first off just
start with one octave and improvise so
picking out to come over and listen
Lydian a will display on top of that
all right never get out of the out there
I did to see there to be there but
there's still one of them and then also
gonna say for another mark like Union
you know whatever it is doesn't really
matter some bees are supervising and
just feeling this new sound and this
release what I wanted to do for all the
modes depending on your level you can
just do it on one octave as I showed you
before in the video or just you know
move it up movie to all the fretboard
you can use all the frets all the
strings you know your limit is the limit
of the exercise so just keep in mind
that you have to have that drone to
really feel the mode and then once you
get that level then it will be much
easier on corporation just to figure out
which not was where and which mode goes
on top of which board okay so I hope you
found all this interesting and you learn
something new and I see you next Friday
with the next weekly session all right
see you later